Title: Attention Is All You Need
Authors: Vaswani et al., 2017

Abstract

The dominant sequence transduction models are based on complex recurrent or
convolutional neural networks that include an encoder and a decoder. The best
performing models also connect the encoder and decoder through an attention
mechanism. We propose a new simple network architecture, the Transformer,
based solely on attention mechanisms, dispensing with recurrence and
convolutions entirely.

Introduction

Recurrent neural networks, long short-term memory and gated recurrent neural
networks in particular, have been firmly established as state of the art
approaches in sequence modelling and transduction problems such as language
modelling and machine translation. Numerous efforts have since continued to
push the boundaries of recurrent language models and encoder-decoder
architectures.

Architecture

The Transformer follows an encoder-decoder structure using stacked self-
attention and point-wise, fully connected layers for both the encoder and
decoder. The encoder maps an input sequence of symbol representations to a
sequence of continuous representations. Given these representations, the
decoder then generates an output sequence of symbols one element at a time.

Self-Attention

An attention function can be described as mapping a query and a set of
key-value pairs to an output, where the query, keys, values, and output are
all vectors. The output is computed as a weighted sum of the values, where the
weight assigned to each value is computed by a compatibility function of the
query with the corresponding key.

Results

On the WMT 2014 English-to-German translation task, the big transformer model
outperforms the best previously reported models, including ensembles, by more
than 2.0 BLEU, establishing a new state-of-the-art BLEU score of 28.4. The
big transformer model achieves 41.0 BLEU on the WMT 2014 English-to-French
translation task, outperforming all of the previously published single models,
at less than 1/4 the training cost of the previous state-of-the-art model.

Conclusion

In this work, we presented the Transformer, the first sequence transduction
model based entirely on attention, replacing the recurrent layers most commonly
used in encoder-decoder architectures with multi-headed self-attention. The
Transformer can be trained significantly faster than architectures based on
recurrent or convolutional layers.
